# CS 2053 Lab Exam 2 - March 23rd, 2021

The steps in this lab have been arranged in suggested order of completion.

***Note you should be on the call for class at all times during the lab. If you have any questions you can message Scott directly on Teams. Do not unmute yourself or speak during lab exam. Scott will make announcements to the class, if necessary.***

## Overview of the Lab Exam
Your goal is to create a simple 2D game. The game has a win and lose condition, and is simply for you to demonstrate your ability in creating the basic elements of a game using Unity.

The Lab Exam is to be completed alone. You are free to use whatever resources you would like. While the activity is not particularly "difficult", you may use your previous labs to assist you. There is also small code snippets provide below to help.

You have 1.5 hours (4:00pm-5:30pm) during lab time to complete the exam and commit and push it to GitHub. So, it would be best to allocate some time to commit and push your code.

***Note: There is a some helpful code for you at the bottom of the document***

- DEMO OF THE COMPLETED GAME: <https://youtu.be/Ds1C9ltfgPQ>

## Submission
You need to complete and submit your code before the 1.5 hour deadline. To submit your code you will make sure your project and scenes are saved. Remember to save in Unity, commit and push your code.

## Requirements
In this lab exam you will build a super simple Mario Bros. game.

Note the requirements below have been organized according to a suggested logical flow for implementation. You may want to review them all before you start, however. If you get stuck on one step, you can leave it and work on another step.

**50 points total**

1. *5 points* - Add two 2D Sprite Shapes as platforms and color them dark green. The platforms should be separated by a gap and the platform on the right should be higher than the platform on the left.
2.  *5 points* - Add a Sprite for Mario that stands on the left side of the lower, left-hand platform when the game is started. Mario should be looking towards the right.
    - You have been provided a sprite sheet that has already been sliced up. Just expand it... by pushing the right arrow on the Sprite Sheet in your assets. You should find a sprite of Mario standing and looking towards the right.
3. *5 points* - Create a simple animation of Mario walking, while looking towards the right. Use 3 frames from the Sprite Sheet to create an animation of Mario walking.
   - We covered animations in a previous lab.
4. *10 points* - Make Mario walk to the left or the right, using the left-right arrow keys and/or the 'a' or 'd' keys. Mario is always looking towards the right, even when moving to the left. When Mario walks you should play the animation, when he stops walking you should stop the animation (see the code below).
5. *5 points* - Make Mario jump. When the spacebar is pressed, make Mario jump. The height Mario jumps should make it easy for him to jump to the higher platform on the right.
	- This can be just a very simple just. It does NOT have to be an "improved jump" that we discussed in a previous lab.
	- The walking animation can continue to play during a jump.
6. *10 points* - Add a flag sprite as a goal. When the flag is reached the game is over and Mario can no longer, move or jump, and his animation stops. Additionally, a yellow "You Win!" message is displayed on the screen.
7. *8 points* - If Mario falls off a platform he falls a short distance, and a red "Game Over" message is displayed.
8. *7 points* - Stop double jumping. Mario likely still has the ability to do double jumps. Mario should only be allowed to jump when he is touching the ground.

***There is no need to provide keys to start or restart the game. The game runs immediately upon playing and ends when Mario falls or reaches the flag.***

## Helpful Code
```cs
//To play your animation at normal speed
anim.Play("NameOfYourAnimation");
anim.speed = 1f;	//plays the animation at normal speed

//to stop the animation
anim.speed = 0f;
```
 
 
 