# CS 2053 Lab Exam 1 - February 23rd, 2021

The steps in this lab have been arranged in suggested order of completion.

*** Note you should be on the call for class at all times during the lab. If you have any questions you can message Scott directly. Do not unmute yourself or speak during lab exam. Scott will make announcements to the class, if necessary.***

## Overview of the Lab Exam
Your goal is to create a simple game. The game does not have a win or lose condition, but is simply for you to demonstrate your ability in creating the basic elements of a game using Unity.

The Lab Exam is to be completed alone. You are free to use whatever resources you would like. While the activity is not particularly "difficult", you may use your previous labs to assist you. There is also small code snippets provide below to help.

You have 1.5 hours (4:00pm-5:30pm) during lab time to complete the exam and commit and push it to GitHub. So, it would be best to allocate some time to commit and push your code.

***Note: There is a some helpful code for you at the bottom of the document***

- DEMO OF THE COMPLETED GAME: <https://youtu.be/1BSuZBy2iWA>

## Submission
You need to complete and submit your code before the 1.5 hour deadline. To submit your code you will make sure your project and scenes are saved. Remember to save in Unity, commit and push your code.

## Requirements
Note the requirements below have been organized according to a suggested logical flow for implementation. You may want to review them all before you start, however.

 1. *12%* - The game takes place on a board, a simple plane that contains three rectangular cubes as obstacles placed on the top. You can place the three rectangular cubes in predetermined places (and they do not need to be instantiated by code). The game board should have a color other than the default (e.g., green), while the cubes can remain the default color. The game uses a fixed camera, positioned appropriately to show the entire game board. 
 2. *12%* - Create a sphere to represent the player. You control the sphere using the arrow keys (which continuously applies physics force, while an arrow key is being pressed).
 	- The game board is not extremely large relative to the player, meaning that it can be challenging to keep the sphere on the plane.
 3. *13%* - The game contains a simple pickup, placed randomly on the board (see code for getting random numbers below). The pickup should have a color, rotate around in place and disappear when the player collides with it. If it is randomly instantiated inside a rectangular cube obstacle, it is OK, the pickup should not disappear. (hint: recall the roll-a-ball tutorial in creating the pickup)
 4. *13%* - A score is displayed throughout game play, in the upper right corner of the screen in large easily visible text. The score starts at zero, and is increased by one when the pickup is removed.
 5. *15%* - When a ball falls off the game board, the maximum score achieved by the player is displayed on the screen. "Your score was 1!". The game doesn't need to take any other action as this point. 
 6. *10%* - When a pickup is collected, another pickup is spawned at a different random location on the screen.
 7. *15%* - The obstacles move in random directions around the game board (either forward, backwards, left or right), but they stay on the game board. Their movement does not have to be perfect, but should be reasonable and allow the game to be played.
 8. *10%* - Each time the ball makes contact with an obstacle the forces applied to it (using the arrow keys) is increased. Making it more difficult to control the ball.
  
 ## Helpful Code 
 ```cs
// generate a random float between -4.0 and 4.0
Random.Range(-4.0f, 4.0f);

//move a game object using the arrow keys (or WASD keys) by applying force
GetComponent<Rigidbody>().AddForce(new Vector3(0f, 0f,Input.GetAxis("Vertical") * forceMultiplier));
GetComponent<Rigidbody>().AddForce(new Vector3(Input.GetAxis("Horizontal") * forceMultiplier, 0f, 0f));
```